okay welcome to the first package
managers weekly sync there is a krip pod
in the group chat if you can update that
with your notes that would be fab can I
have a volunteer to be a note-taker
thanks Holly cool so we're gonna go
around the group and if people have
stuff to say about what they've been
doing and that's great so yeah I'll go
first
Mike grabs a quick pad link real quick
is in the group shot you don't sit do I
need to put it in again yeah okay so MP
on our professor has been very unstable
in the last week because there's a
memory leak I've been trying to track it
down I think it's in a refactor of the
right file atomic module ironically the
commit message was to say get better at
cleaning up file descriptors I think
that she got worse cleaning up file
descriptors but we're about to move off
that library because and that was an
outcome of some of the way the nephron
did so if that is indeed the problem it
should it's over today
I've been trying with info about a plan
to get it deployed on to container
services at the moment it's just on a
box with docker so it's very much a
single point radio so it's going to be
great yes that's kind of it need to
update the roadmap and get a proper zoom
account and that's gonna be me and help
and you on board in any way that I can
no we mean next yes hello I think all of
you actor and that's me
let's did I meet you
forced him I didn't okay
so I've not updated that so we just
started still kind of catching kind of
like brain dumping everything what I did
yesterday was kind of like start ripping
apart that spreadsheet a little bit that
existed before I've lost all my links
there and basically trying to make a bit
of a case for categorizing and grouping
together registries and clients that
would an implementation of ipfs for one
would enable either us to collect or
start syncing packages across for that
registry which would then be available
for multiple clients or potentially have
kind of find the innards of multiple
clients that all would be able to use
the same integration point so I've
started noting some of those things down
and then I'm going to take a knife to
that spreadsheet and kind of change it
all up a little bit so we can then get a
good idea of which are the biggest or
like the the best package manager kind
of types or groups to aim at for
integration and then start filling out
some
of the the different details that either
ipfs specific or just some of those kind
of like approximate number of packages
are the the kind of protocols that they
have around publishing and unpublishing
and things that might be relevant and
maintain is that we either know or know
of as the people to reach out to for
these different kind of things just so
we have some kind of like canonical
source of of different package measures
that we can keep track of maybe it
doesn't end up staying as a spreadsheet
because it feels like it's kind of a
four dimensional spreadsheet but it's a
good starting point to plan different
attacks or at least keep track of where
everyone's going from and I've also been
poking around in the code of NPM on ipfs
to kind of just get a better
understanding of how it works and how it
maps on to different parts of IP FS wast
still understanding all the different
ways that things work they're assigned
to form a different ideas of ways we can
reuse some of what alex has done for
other package manager or maybe not the
code but maybe the kind of the the ideas
or the flows at oh sorry yes I can't
really wait for you to finish here a bit
I just wanted to have a follow up
question okay yeah I
yeah so that's basically kind of just
been really sniffing around and making a
few notes and getting a hang of
everything
all right thank you if I guess I don't
see in the other hand so I was just like
what my question so my question is I'm
sure you are now overloaded with ton of
onboarding Docs and a lot of things to
read from all over the places the the
thing I wanted to add to ask is like we
you are now reading a spreadsheet with
the different characteristics of
different package managers like registry
swatch clients one of the things that
will be available to have on the
function to define like what is the
priority it's like to go after each
package manager is actually also the
relationship so there are multiple
package managers that's already about
communication open with us they already
did some experiments themselves and or
that are just like overall super super
excited about of us they will be like
like that kind of like early adopters
crowds that we would be able to better
test things with us and I'd be a little
bit more tolerance to to possible
mistakes there yeah yeah and I noticed
there's quite a few bits of history
dotted around between about three
different Google Docs and that
spreadsheet so we definitely want to
keep track of those things
awesome awesome yeah like I think
everyone in this group participated in a
call that basically created the first
document from those three it has like
that context but like people here can
even share more notes with you as you
dive into that data the other thing I
would add I think I kept Ramon in your
organization right now it's kind of like
wishing like excited to add some kind of
like direction in terms of like what
they should be like focusing as soon as
possible to enable the whole use case to
work and so I think it would be good to
have as soon as possible and I
understand that if these dreams like two
weeks or even a month this time but I
guess soon as possible some kind of like
benchmarks
by or some kind of like feature sets
that we already know that ipfs needs to
provide for it to be very successful
with the package managers ecosystem as a
whole and
from saying hey no I'm on average I get
reminders just move like 10 terabytes
data from machine to machine a day or on
average like a user consumes like like
one gig of packages a day and so they
need to like done all those pretty fast
until we need to be able to extreme it
from multiple locations as fast as
possible or or or yeah like like what
what is the discovery process to finding
these packages it's kind of like having
these may be like kind of like all pinch
marks of questions like easy as possible
today all right be fast like if a
package when there was a woman this is
possible so that like that seeds the
thinking for the working groups to start
seeing like if the things that they are
like hacking are like especially for the
GFS and go at the pest to understand
like if they are putting their right
energy into the right directions to
support Isis case or not yeah I mean
straight away people should definitely
try NPM on ipfs see if it works for them
for me
the servers have been falling over every
time over the past couple days when I've
tried to use it and it's then like
hopefully that any frustration people
will feel will could be poured back into
that Eva's feedback or code or
infrastructure help to really kick the
tires on that and get a feel for like is
it working to actually benefit from
going to people that are nearby me and
actually like using the the benefits of
ipfs or am I just using it as a mirror
from a different registry than the NPM
registry yeah yeah I agree like everyone
should be trying this at home should be
like pulling their game registry and
dried beef that's cool okay I'll about
taking more time that right now there's
more updates to come who's next
that's over me Eric German up there no
I'm gonna be here in a read-only
capacity for a while I guess I'm working
on a bunch of ylvie and crafting sorts
of things and I'm eagerly awaiting when
that comes to another fruition that it's
increasingly relevant to the package
managers discussion last week is
probably as fun Hector just here listen
I didn't know anything related to
package managers I think that's weeks
yeah I'm guessing the any updates really
gonna be from me and Angie today so
that's cool and yeah so we have these
like this idea that we need to get these
capabilities written down that we can
use to drive the next quarters worth of
chaos for the other teams so that's
gonna be our focus I think for the next
two weeks pretty such gonna be out phone
yeah I think it will be very motivating
for the entire team to have kind of like
these example runs that they could try
at home to see like all the team breaks
on their laptops so that they could
understand like hey because I promised
results let's act on them together into
I like Andrews idea about like just
getting everyone that is like developing
at least like they go ipfs people and
the best people to try to download them
into ipfs and like see like what are the
pain points from like user experience or
like the thing breaks what happened or
there's an inconsistent hash or or just
like falls over or kills a router or
something into like giggling getting
that articulated and then we can even
like like we can remove all of the
obstacles like you people say I don't
have enough like disk space I just ship
it out right so everyone we do have like
we have terabytes so the technique and
of all the NPM then then there there is
also like this other like creative
interesting wall posts it can be written
I know that Alex is working on a 1i just
describing what is the
structure that he developed to like
deploy and family papers which is going
to be very interesting for multiple
groups not just on breakage miners it
was like for multiple groups that they
have large other sets but it's also
interesting to like just the process of
like downloading all the registries and
doing ipfs ad and seeing if there is any
deduping that actually reduces the data
set right like if there's like
deduplication happening without like any
magic extra magic that then we could say
Oh like we could grab all the packages
in the world and I could reduce them by
20% or 30% I'm not sure if this is
possible but I I do remember when we
were like this 2015 we were at this
conference panel mesh like basically the
the mesh routing protocols conference
and it was in the middle of the woods
and like people were having trouble like
I'm molding the open wrt different
flavors for their different routers and
we pulled it all together at my PFS and
we managed to save 40% of the space that
would take to store all of those images
like all of those destroyed images and
that was using Robyn fingerprinting if
I'm not mistaken Co for example then
like we have like this different values
to tune oh are we using just fixed size
chunking that we're using Robyn
fingerprinting are we creating an
interesting data structure to store
these packages that like will make even
like six faster or just like the whole
storage faster and until I started like
outlining these things that we could
publish to get people to rally to
understand what are the benchmarks to
get people excited about the
possibilities like the the extra
features
tears are like hey IQ or confined in or
dissipated but I was like what these
actually people like running easy for
structure bike administers can gain from
using a PSS as a transfer protocol will
be very interesting like as like
broadcast material or this like this is
my claim but he's like one thing I'm
excited about yeah right yeah it's
definitely worth paying some of these
experiments and in a birthing in the
group there's a link to an issue said
Michael did some experimentation using
rubbin encoding and having uncompressed
tables the idea being that like between
releases not a lot would change so in
theory you'd be able to deep a lot like
that and it was it actually ended up
being bigger than just using straight
tables and using symmetric chunks so
it's definitely worth proving these
things up probably something to do is
that we could make without having that
entangled with the package managers
discussion today Wayne and I took a
couple looks at the current rappin
chunking code in the hack train in the
UK a few months ago and we realized that
it is extremely easy to improve upon and
somebody just needs to allocate time
specifically to that task
I guess on a similar line something that
just popped into my head from maybe like
thinking about what we could potentially
write about is maybe giving them a way
to work out like how much an individual
developers laptop is downloading or
storing say in node modules like how
many times do I have requests on my hard
disk like across every different
previous project that I've stored and
how many times that get downloaded like
and I don't know if ipfs would
necessarily directly change like the
amount of total use across the disk baby
interesting as then like oh well maybe
we should be similar thing into packaged
item from the ipfs directory rather than
like copying everywhere or other similar
kind of things it's like leading down
those contractions I know there's all
kinds of like his ways that are terrible
and potentially those things get better
or potentially they don't yeah
I love it like perhaps like just writing
a simple script where people we write
people to a can you run this on your
like how projects folder and like we
will just like see the package essence
of like of your tiny projects you see
how many times you are requested like
downloading the same package yeah it's
the same thing for like even the IP
person p.m. to like when you do install
if you would like get metrics about how
many times you save the round clip to
the NPM registry by just like seeing a
backyard you have a module like will you
network or that you don't know the the
module not from like even the registry
DOJ's every test that I do but actually
the move from like a local area network
node will be interesting metrics saying
I hey Ike here's all of these like pen
with games which are very expensive
which you are paying Amazon for them any
like getting into the habit of I getting
out a cadence so like this blog post
like show like the amount of benefits
that we have available and again I this
is like before like we even dive super
deep into data structures and to make
these like super optimized right this is
just like like at the front like what we
have already available that what we can
offer
there's also like potentially we have
the MPM graveyard now if we have a copy
of every module even after they've been
yanked it's like oh did you want that
module it's over there you can't get rid
of it
viruses and all
well you want the viruses so that you
can create the anti viruses right like
you always want to keep a copy yeah so
so again I think like really a great
outfit for like tissues for the next
following weeks is really like okay what
can we avoid be fast images if the team
started thinking about to make like to
plan for next for about what I should be
trying to optimize and also like what
they should prioritize the most to get
done is quarter so that they are better
set for next quarter
then there is perhaps I can sew
composition 12 with the web browser team
because they want to do this jazz CDN
over IP FS so welding all the web apps
in the world through ipfs itself using
things like web package or even just
like just by putting the assets at ipfs
and like serving it to a service worker
so like kind of like putting a jetpack
onto the script tag if we can call that
a package manager and I mean I guess
like people would be like eight minutes
left and and I I don't see if there's
like anyone and I don't see and perhaps
like a good thing that we could discuss
here today he just like the these like
private repo versus public repo for
package managers which Alex s thingy a
bunch of times
and I just want to do is check in with
everyone because I concrete and because
I can't create private repos otherwise I
would have done it already
is basically so we have these were there
are these like Google Docs and they're
great but it's really hard to have like
nuanced threaded conversations in a
Google Doc and they're also terrible for
discoverability and you know now that
we've got like some stuff to do it be
cool to like you know have a waffle
board and wood out so you know what's
going on kinda hard to do that with
Google Docs yeah yeah until I think it
is totally doable - I like just a repo
and started and now like we have this
group we have a weekly meeting I think
this is like a very good like pace to
like and I gave a very good moment to
sort of repo I guess like what I've been
just like giving us feedback to Alex and
like this is my only concern and why we
haven't created public people yet is
because like when we talk about package
managers we often like inject personal
relationships business relationships
that like we have with some of these
companies and and like that can get
weird if we get those things logged on
public repos and public tools and so on
like like again like some of these
groups are actually like quoted
companies like vc-backed companies like
as trying to say oh we could totally
like replace some piece of
infrastructure they offer
PFS can ever direct impacting them and
so another can bike that can be like
very productive because they can use it
as email all-seeing eye defense group is
kind of like contributing to the whole
ecosystem that's great or oh my god
there is a potential like alternative to
what we have been building for many
years we should be careful and so like
when we go full public we have to be
very careful to always talk about like
the benefits and like was it contribute
to the ecosystems and I like what are
the feature sets rather than like
strategic like personal relationships
that we have with people and we have to
be very sure to make that distinction
otherwise it will get very very fast
like what do you guys think I think we
should have a private repo and if we
ever have a public one we should delete
the private repo just so there's no
chance of leaking that kind of stuff
because it is all very sensitive okay I
do understand that that proposal it is
also about well what other people think
yeah private for now sounds fine
I see it mortals urban Adams up now take
from activities a certain stopping okay
I'll create a private repo for you I
can't do that right now
and I can even move this issue so that
you don't even have to create another
region
but people don't have to wait for me to
create a repo on the car we can continue
using it this time for other things
so I was poking around a little bit to
see if I could turn Alex's code into
something that would work for something
else so the idea of like you run a local
copy of a register of like a registries
kind of proxy I guess where the proxy
might be like oh I already got this or I
will go to the wider ipfs swarm I guess
that's pretty cool I'm still learning
all the terminology and
[Music]
if I can't find it there then I will go
now actually downloaded from the
registry and store that in ipfs and then
use it which is should work for a lot of
registry a lot of package managers that
have the ability to say like oh use an
alternative registry that I wonder if
you could simply do it as like the URL
of the tar ball as the like the key
rather than the package name and then
like the so I think the name of the
registry or that like how it's mounted
on ipfs for NPM is NPM - registry could
you just take the URL and be like there
you go the only thing I can see
happening there is if you would just try
and pipe every URL that a package
manager client asked for so ipfs stuff
that would expire like whenever there
was a new version so maybe it's a case
of white listing a certain set of
regular expressions to be like these are
known links to tar balls for registry so
if it ends in gem then for ruby gems
that's absolutely fine like we'll assume
that it is something that can be stored
but to it in it like a way that doesn't
care what package manager is using as a
as a starting point rather than to start
to fill some of the because I figure the
content is the same once it's on ipfs
like even if the index that pointed to
it was just dumb like this URL says the
content of that URL is over there then
as we work out we
particular communities the best way to
map their particular register is
metadata to point to those see IDs the
content is already there it's just that
there are multiple different ways to
point to that CID and then a lot of that
stuff is already kind of available and
as registry clients get either like
plugins or there are Forks or rappers
that actually add direct IP ever support
you also kind of then can say like oh
well we can you multiple people can run
these online in a kind of artifactory
style like it's it's not directly local
like to your laptop but it's running all
the time for your team or whatever I
mean you could you could probably put
them on Heroku it's just that the poor
little Dino would be like I never gonna
store anything for very long like a
little digital ocean droplet it would be
interesting to see if how quickly rather
than just looking at individual users
having their own ipfs nodes could you
have lots of little like partial mirrors
of just the packages that say one
company or one group of users cares
about where the code is basically the
same ever for everyone it's just that
not everyone has all of the packages and
they're basically then keeping connected
oh I'm running over yeah we need to jump
the other car but I'm trying to answer
that pretty quickly I don't think I'm a
fast right now supports that option to
em FS is just this virtual directory
tree that we support inside of EFS so
that gives you actually stuck at normal
unique suppose uniques
like filesystem but like
you can ever you can I fetch the whole
tree just like that you have a way to
observe what is going on but then you
just pin your cue just like fetch soup
soup parts of their that graph like
which are the packages that you are
interested rather than like having to
copy the whole thing but I don't think
that's there at all or spikes outs maybe
but like Alex it for him because he has
this other thing that you could like to
sync things or a pupster than what kind
of thing yeah I got to earlier I ran
into there like ah pops up could be used
to like avoid having to copy the whole
list of the registry down even if you
don't want it all folks we are out of
time this has been most awesome in new
rule meeting and we'll see you all next
week for another another out of package
managers very poor